Our topic for this presentation is using a machine learning model to predict members of the National Baseball Hall
of Fame. The National Baseball Hall of Fame was created in 1936, inducting its first class of players that year. 
Since then, the Baseball Writer's Association of America holds a yearly election on eligible members, based on having 
played at least ten seasons, having been retired at least five years prior to the year of the election, and having not
been placed on the Baseball Hall of Fame ineligible list. Voters take into account a player's statistical record, 
ability, and contributions to their teams. Candidates receiving at least 75% of the vote gain admittance to the Hall. 

(Next Slide)
Hall of Fame membership is considered one of the rarest and most prestigious honors in sports. As this slide
illustrates, off the roughly 20,000 players in history to appear in a Major League game, only 263 have been elected
to the Hall as players, with just over 1200 players total to even reach eligibility. In fact, gaining entrance
to the Hall seems to become more difficult over time. (Next Slide) Up to the 1970 season, 1.9% of players in history
had been elected; under 1% of players since then have. The task of electing players has become harder over time as 
writers and committee members make their decisions based on the effects of changes in the style of play, fallout from
the Steroids era, and intangibles like sportsmanship, character, and integrity. What our Hall of Fame Predictor does 
is create a tool for fans to evaluate a players Hall of Fame case based solely on their on-field production. Our model
based on a database built of nearly every player in baseball history, allowing for players to be compared across eras. 
Who's most likely to be elected next year? Who had the better Hall of Fame resume, Babe Ruth or Hank Aaron? Which 
non-members have the most compelling statistical case for inclusion? All of these can be answered with our Hall of 
Fame Predictor. We feel that this is a tool that can remove bias from the election process and is easy to maintain and
update over time. It could be further advanced and implemented by sports websites, the Hall of Fame itself, 
fantasy sports fans, and pro teams.




