Proposal:
Our initiative is to create an application that uses machine learning to predict future members of the hall of fame,
evaluate underrated players and determine the reason statistically worthy players have not been added. 

Live Demo: 

Homepage:
Our landing page provides insight on the reason the Hall of Fame Predictor was created, the players it will analyze and 
it's functionality.

Background:
The background page includes the requirements for all individuals inducted into the hall of fame, how this is utilized in our
application and the technologies involved to generate results.

Batting:
Our batting page provides a table filter that shows instant results. (example demo) This predictor is user friendly and the key 
for each column is included so anyone can understand the table. 

Pitching:
Our pitching page includes the same format and functoinality to remain as user friendly as possible. (example demo)

Analysis: 
Our analysis page has all the visualizations created in Tableau

This bar chart visualization shows total number of players inducted to the HOF in baseball history, total 
number of players nominated but not inducted to the HOF, and lastly (also by far most commonly) all other 
players. This visualization helps to clarify and separate the nominees who did and did not get in to the HOF.

The above circle chart shows the density of players elected and the density of players nominated for Hall of
Fame induction relative to the total number of players in baseball history. This visualization puts into
perspective the rarity of even being nominated as a potential Hall of Famer. The “bullseye” of this graph
then illustrates the rarity within that nominee group to become fully inducted


This chart illustrates the increasing rarity of which players get inducted into the HOF. As the total number of players has 
steadily increased over the past 150 years - the number of inducted players has risen at a much slower scale.


The above shows the number of Hall of Fame nominees versus the number of those nominees who were actually inducted. 
As the slope of nominees seems to increase - the slope inductees remains relatively the same. 
This further indicates the increased rarity of being Hall of Fame induction over time.

It is showcased above that there seems to be an inverse relationshipp between years of Hall Of Fame nomination and 
chance of induction. Although there is a higher number of players who were nominated once, their odds of induction are low. 
Although players are less likely to receive multiple nominations - they seem more likely to be inducted the more nominations 
they receive.  